SCENARIO
Scenario 1

One of the most critical factors in customer relationship management that directly affects a company’s long-term profitability is understanding the customers. When a company can better understand its customers’ characteristics, it is better able to target products and marketing campaigns for customers, resulting in better profits for the company in the long term.

 

You are an analyst for a telecommunications company that wants to better understand the characteristics of its customers. You have been asked to perform a market basket analysis to analyze customer data to identify key associations of your customer purchases, ultimately enabling better business and strategic decision-making.

 

Scenario 2

One of the most critical factors in patient relationship management that directly affects a hospital’s long-term cost-effectiveness is understanding the patients and the conditions leading to hospital admissions. When a hospital understands its patients' characteristics, it is better able to target treatment to patients, resulting in a more effective cost of care for the hospital in the long term.

 

You are an analyst for a hospital that wants to better understand the characteristics of its patients. You have been asked to perform a market basket analysis to analyze patient data to identify key associations of your patients, ultimately enabling better business and strategic decision-making for the hospital.

REQUIREMENTS
Your submission must be your original work. No more than a combined total of 30% of the submission and no more than a 10% match to any one individual source can be directly quoted or closely paraphrased from sources, even if cited correctly. The similarity report that is provided when you submit your task can be used as a guide.

 You must use the rubric to direct the creation of your submission because it provides detailed criteria that will be used to evaluate your work. Each requirement below may be evaluated by more than one rubric aspect. The rubric aspect titles may contain hyperlinks to relevant portions of the course.

Tasks may not be submitted as cloud links, such as links to Google Docs, Google Slides, OneDrive, etc., unless specified in the task requirements. All other submissions must be file types that are uploaded and submitted as attachments (e.g., .docx, .pdf, .ppt).
 

Part I: Research Question

A.  Describe the purpose of your data mining report by doing the following:

1.  Propose one question relevant to a real-world organizational situation that you will answer using market basket analysis.

2.  Define one goal of the data analysis. Ensure your goal is reasonable within the scope of the selected scenario and is represented in the available data.
 

Part II: Market Basket Justification

B.  Explain the reasons for using market basket analysis by doing the following: 

1.  Explain how market basket analyzes the selected data set. Include expected outcomes.

2.  Provide one example of transactions in the data set.

3.  Summarize one assumption of market basket analysis.
 

Part III: Data Preparation and Analysis

C.  Prepare and perform market basket analysis by doing the following:

1.  Transform the data set to make it suitable for market basket analysis. Include a copy of the cleaned data set.

2.  Execute the code used to generate association rules with the Apriori algorithm. Provide screenshots that demonstrate that the code is error free.

3.  Provide values for the support, lift, and confidence of the association rules table.

4.  Explain the top three relevant rules generated by the Apriori algorithm. Include a screenshot of the top three relevant rules.
 

Part IV: Data Summary and Implications

D.  Summarize your data analysis by doing the following:

1.  Summarize the significance of support, lift, and confidence from the results of the analysis.

2.  Discuss the practical significance of your findings from the analysis.

3.  Recommend a course of action for the real-world organizational situation from part A1 based on the results from part D1.
 

Part V: Attachments

E.  Provide a Panopto video recording that includes the presenter and a vocalized demonstration showing all code used, the code being executed, and the results of all code used in the task.

1.  Include the presenter and a vocalized demonstration describing the programs used to complete this task in the Panopto video recording.
 

Note: The audiovisual recording should feature you visibly presenting the material (i.e., not in voiceover or embedded video) and should simultaneously capture both you and your multimedia presentation.

 Note: For instructions on how to access and use Panopto, use the "Panopto How-To Videos" web link provided below. To access Panopto's website, navigate to the web link titled "Panopto Access," and then choose to log in using the “WGU” option. If prompted, log in using your WGU student portal credentials, and then it will forward you to Panopto’s website.

 To submit your recording, upload it to the Panopto drop box titled “Data Mining II – OFM4” Once the recording has been uploaded and processed in Panopto's system, retrieve the URL of the recording from Panopto and copy and paste it into the Links option. Upload the remaining task requirements using the Attachments option. 
 

F.  Record all web sources you used to acquire data or segments of third-party code to support the application. Ensure the web sources are reliable.
 

G.  Acknowledge sources, using in-text citations and references, for content that is quoted, paraphrased, or summarized.
 

H. Demonstrate professional communication in the content and presentation of your submission.

